---
document_id: 331d9dc4-4d72-4272-b9fe-7fc44148c980
chunk_index: 236
page: 59
heading: "Endoscopic Therapy"
---

Mechanical devices have been used for the treatment of variceal hemorrhage, but rarely in the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer disease. Hemoclips, however, have gained increasing popularity in the past few years. Initial enthusiasm for the use of hemoclips was generated by a study by Cipolletta and colleagues, in which they compared hemoclips with heater probe thermocoagulation [54]. They reported a significantly lower rate of recurrent bleeding with the use of hemoclips (1.8% vs. 21%). The deployment of hemoclips on fibrotic ulcer floors can be difficult, however, particularly when they are used tangentially or with the endoscope in a retroflexed position. Indeed, two subsequent trials yielded conflicting results on the use of hemoclips. Lin and colleagues compared hemoclips with heater probe coagulation, and in 6 out of 40 patients the hemoclips could not be applied [55]. Gevers et al. randomly assigned patients with bleeding ulcers to treatment with hemoclips, injection, or both [56]. They reported a failure rate of 13 out of 35 patients with the hemoclips compared with 5 out of 34 with injection and 8 out of 32 patients with combined therapy. The efficacy of hemoclips seems to be limited by the difficulty of successful application. With improvements in design, this technical problem might be overcome. More studies are required to give a fair verdict on the effectiveness of hemoclips.
