---
document_id: 331d9dc4-4d72-4272-b9fe-7fc44148c980
chunk_index: 237
page: 60
heading: "Endoscopic Therapy"
---

Many endoscopists favor combined therapy, in which the injection of diluted epinephrine precedes thermal coagulation. In actively bleeding ulcers, an injection can diminish or even stop bleeding, allowing a clear view of the bleeding vessel, which in turn facilitates accurate thermal coagulation. The cessation of blood flow can also prevent dissipation of thermal energy, so that tissue injury can be minimized. In a prospective randomized trial, 134 patients with actively bleeding ulcers who received epinephrine alone were compared with 136 patients who received the combined therapy of epinephrine injection followed by heater probe coagulation [57]. There was no difference in the outcome of the two treatment strategies as measured by rebleeding, the need for surgery, requirement for repeated endoscopic hemostasis, length of hospital stay, mortality rate, or healing at 4 weeks. When the subgroup of patients with spurting ulcers was analyzed separately, however, there was less rebleeding in the combined group as well as a lesser need for surgery. For the severe form of spurting hemorrhage, combined therapy therefore seems to be beneficial. The benefit of combination therapy has further been evaluated in many trials and confirmed by meta-analysis. In a systematic review that aimed to determine whether the addition of a second hemostatic procedure immediately after epinephrine injection improves efficacy of hemostasis or patient outcomes, 16 randomized studies involving 1,673 patients were analyzed [58]. The addition of a second procedure reduced the rate of recurrent bleeding from 18.4 to 10.6% (OR 0.53, 95% CI 0.40-0.69) and that of emergency surgery from 11.3 to 7.6% (OR 0.64, 95% CT 0.46-0.90). The mortality rate fell from 5.1 to 2.6% (OR 0.51, 95% CI 0.31-0.84). Eleven studies used injected substances (such as sclerosant, tissue adhesive, or thrombin), two studies added hemoclips, and three studies evaluated the added use of thermal coagulation devices. Pooled data revealed that combined therapy is the treatment of choice for high-risk bleeding peptic ulcers. The meta-analysis also confirmed a greater risk of the significant complications of perforation and gastric-wall necrosis in the combined therapy group (6 out of 558 patients) than in the epinephrine-alone group (1 out of 560 patients). Furthermore, improvement in prognosis seems to be more evident in those with active bleeding.
