---
document_id: 331d9dc4-4d72-4272-b9fe-7fc44148c980
chunk_index: 258
page: 65
heading: "Interventional Therapy"
---

embolization is to selectively reduce blood supply to the source of bleeding while maintaining enough collateral blood flow to maintain viability. With new advances in hydrophilic, steerable wires and microcatheters, superselection and embolization in short segments of visceral arteries can now be performed. Coaxial systems allow 2-3 Fr catheters to pass through previous larger catheters to allow access to distal branch arteries. Presumably, submucosal collateral blood supply to short segments of bowel prevents most ischemic complications after embolization [103]. Series by Lang in 1992 and Schenker et al. in 2001 showed that transcatheter embolization with microcatheters was beneficial and safe when applied to the upper GI system [104, 105]. Lang reported that terminal vessel embolization provided more effective long-term control of bleeding in the duodenum with only mildly increased risk of late duodenal stenosis [104]. Since the introduction of microcatheter systems, use of angiographic embolization to successfully treat peptic ulcer disease has increased. Along with the improvements in microcatheter systems, development of new embolization agents has likewise increased. Many embolization agents have been used successfully including particulate embolization such as polyvinyl alcohol particles or autologous clot, coil embolization, Gelfoam embolization, glue embolization such as N -butyl 2-cyanoacrylate, balloon embolization with detachable balloons, or sclerosant embolization such as ethanol or polidocanol. Lang et al. favored e-aminocaproic acid-induced autologous clot when occluding the proximal gastroduodenal artery, while Funaki favored microcoils because of their ease of deployment and better visualization under fluoroscopy [103]. Schenker et al. found that none of the procedural variables, including the type of embolization, had a significant impact on clinical success [105]. However, Aina et al. concluded that the use of coil embolization as a single therapy for NUGB was associated with a higher risk of early rebleeding [96]. Although results have varied, the combination of coils and embolic particles ('sandwiches') has gained favor in controlling bleeding compared with single therapy [96, 102]. Absolute alcohol, autologous clot, and Gelfoam powder have been used as embolic agents, but are less favored because of their distal occlusive properties and increased ischemia risks. Further investigation is needed to determine the optimal size of embolic agents for each clinical application.
