---
document_id: 331d9dc4-4d72-4272-b9fe-7fc44148c980
chunk_index: 261
page: 66
heading: "Interventional Therapy"
---

Transcatheter embolization remains a safe adjunct to endoscopy in the control of peptic ulcer bleeding. These methods are associated with a control rate of initial bleeding of 89-98% and clinical success rates of 52-90% with most reports showing clinical successes of 70-80% [97, 99, 106]. Carreira et al. reported a large series over 10 years utilizing transcatheter embolization and showed a procedural success rate of 89% and clinical success rate of 80% [107]. Gomes et al. had previously compared vasopressin infusion to embolization techniques and found the primary success rate with embolization therapy to be 71% and secondary success rate 88% compared with the primary success rate of 52% with vasoconstrictor infusion [101]. While angiographic control of bleeding is achieved in a vast majority of patients, less than 10% will develop recurrent bleeding. Often these patients are amenable to angiographic reintervention. Schenker et al. and Carreira et al. report similar complication rates of approximately 10% in their 10-year experience [105, 107]. More than half of these complications were considered minor with the major complications consisting of coil migration, renal impairment secondary to contrast nephrotoxicity, bowel or hepatic ischemia, arterial dissection or bleeding, and contrast reactions. Intestinal ischemia was usually transient, requiring surgical intervention in less than 1%. While the overall mortality of all patients with NUGB remains 6-10%, the mortality rate for patients that require transcatheter embolization is 10-40%. Walsh et al. found a 17% overall mortality after successful angiographic embolization, which was significantly higher (62%) if embolization failed to control the bleeding [108]. Schenker et al. identified no technical factors, such as which arteries were embolized or the type of embolization material used, that impacted on mortality [105]. Clinical factors that predicted poor outcomes were multi-organ failure, cirrhosis, bleeding dyscrasia, older age, cancer, and the recurrence of bleeding [105].
