---
document_id: 331d9dc4-4d72-4272-b9fe-7fc44148c980
chunk_index: 295
page: 80
heading: "Aortoenteric Fistula"
---

Delayed or missed diagnosis of ADF carries a high mortality and morbidity. Since most delays in diagnosis occur in hemodynamically stable patients with atypical presentations, any patient with a history of AAA presenting with upper GI bleeding or significant melena should be suspected of having an ADF until proven otherwise. In an actively bleeding patient with suspected ADF, management starts with rapid assessment of hemodynamic stability. An unstable patient or the presence of massive hemorrhage in any patient requires a rapid initial assessment, placement of large-bore resuscitation lines (located with potential vascular reconstruction in mind), immediate fluid and non-typed blood resuscitation, and eventual typing and cross-matching of blood. These patients will most likely require urgent laparotomy for control of bleeding for survival. More commonly, a hemodynamically stable patient will present after one or more self-limited episodes of GI bleeding, allowing for a more comprehensive diagnostic work-up with imaging studies that can confirm the diagnosis of ADF and allow for operative planning. It is important to note that laboratory values may or may not show a low hemoglobin/hematocrit depending on the chronicity of GI bleeding. Also, a mild to moderate leukocytosis (white blood cell count >10 × 10 9 per L) may result from a contaminated prosthetic graft and, potentially, bacteremia. In these patients, blood cultures should be sent and broad-spectrum coverage should be started empirically against the most common pathogens documented in these circumstances: Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus , and Staphylococcus epidermidis. Although rare, fungal infections leading to secondary ADF have been reported, so initiating empiric antifungal therapy is reasonable [9, 12].
