---
document_id: 331d9dc4-4d72-4272-b9fe-7fc44148c980
chunk_index: 436
page: 119
heading: "Therapy"
---

Arelatively common finding after failure of conservative management and selective arterial embolization is hemocholecystitis. These cases have been managed with cholecystectomy with no additional sequelae [29]. Similarly, if hemobilia results from cholecystitis, cholecystectomy is curative. In cases of hemobilia that are associated with a hepatic artery aneurysm, depending on the location of the aneurysm, these can be treated with embolization or surgical ligation or resection. Given the significant morbidity associated with an exploratory laparotomy and ligation or resection, one should entertain embolization as a first-line therapy. Particularly when the vascular lesion is located within the hepatic parenchyma. In the rare instance of an extrahepatic arterial aneurysm producing biliary hemorrhage from rupture into the biliary tree, a surgical approach is more fitting with ligation or resection of the involved branch or lobe. Since hepatic artery reconstruction is not a straightforward procedure and since it may not be an option in a patient in extremis, ligation is an attractive alternative. Ligation of the extrahepatic artery without restoration of the arterial continuity is an effective technique, particularly if the liver and adjacent organs are fed through collateral circuits [26]. Cases of bilioportal fistulae also appear to be amenable to surgical interventions [30]. Independent of the surgical procedure, some authors advocate the placement of biliary drains after hemostasis has been obtained. External drains allow lavage of retained thrombi and facilitate clearing thrombus formation in cases of re-bleeding [29] and allow the subsequent fibrinolytic effects of bile to clear the duct. However, these drains are large by necessity and need to be placed centrally to be effective, and both their size and central placement are associated, potentially, with further injury. Therefore, if additional decompression is necessary, an ERCP with sphincterotomy and stent placement or subsequent nasobiliary stenting will facilitate biliary flow (Fig. 3).
