---
document_id: 331d9dc4-4d72-4272-b9fe-7fc44148c980
chunk_index: 476
page: 135
heading: "Resuscitation and Stabilization for Massive LGIB"
---

The approach to any patient with a large amount of red or dark blood per rectum begins with a history, while simultaneously addressing vital sign abnormalities and immediate resuscitation. Important historical information includes use of aspirin, NSAIDs, warfarin, or other anticoagulation medications, personal or family history of clotting disorders, previous surgeries, history of GI bleeding, and recent procedures. For a patient with a large amount of blood or melena and/or hemodynamic instability, two large-bore intravenous lines should be placed in antecubital veins and resuscitation begun with warmed crystalloid fluids. The patient should be placed on continuous hemodynamic monitoring and a urinary catheter should be inserted. Since the most common cause of blood per rectum is upper GI bleeding, a nasogastric tube must be placed and the stomach lavaged. If bloody or coffee ground material is aspirated, the diagnostic pathway to follow is for upper GI bleeding. If bilious material is aspirated, the patient is presumed to have bleeding distal to the ligament of Treitz; aspiration of clear fluid favors a more distal source but does not completely rule out upper GI bleeding. Necessary laboratory investigations include a complete blood count, arterial blood gas, electrolytes, coagulation tests, and type and cross-match. The patient should be admitted to a monitored unit, potentially intensive care if conditions warrant. If the patients' hemodynamic instability does not respond appropriately with fluid resuscitation, blood transfusion with O negative unmatched blood may be necessary while waiting for the cross-matched blood. Physical exam should include digital rectal exam and anoscopy or rigid proctoscopy when feasible.
