---
document_id: 331d9dc4-4d72-4272-b9fe-7fc44148c980
chunk_index: 521
page: 148
heading: "Bleeding hemorrhoids"
---

Another alternative is infrared coagulation therapy where infrared radiation is applied to hemorrhoids in short bursts lasting 1-1.5 s to decrease blood flow to the region [14]. This treatment has recently fallen out of favor due to increased postprocedural pain syndromes. Sclerotherapy is another alternative method in which a sclerosing agent is injected locally into the apex of hemorrhoidal clusters. Agents include phenol in oil, sodium morrhuate, sodium tetradecyl sulfate, and quinine urea. Dangers of this technique include significant peri-anal infection or fibrosis if injectant is applied improperly [3]. Cryotherapy to relieve symptoms has been attempted with 90% success rates but unacceptably high rates of post-procedural pain as well as foul-smelling discharge [15]. Ligation under vision is another technique which has been described in a small series from Israel. Bronstein performed this technique as an outpatient procedure in 32 patients with grade II and III hemorrhoids. The procedure consists of suture ligation of hemorrhoids under direct vision without additional instrumentation and took an average of 22 min to perform. At median follow-up of 21 months, 12.5% of patients (4 of 32) continued to suffer from symptomatic bleeding with 8% suffering return of prolapse. Overall, 90.5% of patients considered the procedural result to be good or excellent [16]. This technique can be particularly useful when applied in addition to correction of other more complex anal pathology. Finally, another minimally invasive technique useful for managing bleeding is Doppler-guided hemorrhoidal artery ligation where a Doppler device attached to the end of a proctoscope is used to guide identification of hemorrhoidal tissue to be ligated [17]. Though it controls bleeding, this method is not effective in treatment of hemorrhoidal prolapse with recurrent prolapse occurring in 64% of patients [18].
