---
document_id: 331d9dc4-4d72-4272-b9fe-7fc44148c980
chunk_index: 552
page: 157
heading: "Table 1 Causes of colitis"
---

Various antibiotics may alter the balance of normal colonic flora allowing the overgrowth of Clostridium species. Clostridium difficile is a gram-positive, anaerobic, spore-forming bacillus that is responsible for the development of antibioticassociated diarrhea and colitis. C. difficile produces two toxins. Toxin A is a cytotoxin and creates the colonic inflammation that allows Toxin B to enter the colonic mucosal cells. Toxin B is extremely toxic to colonic cells. Diarrhea and colitis are caused by toxins produced by pathogenic strains of this bacteria. Clinical manifestations may range from simply loose stools to active colitis with bloody diarrhea, pain, fever, leukocytosis, and protein-losing enteropathy. Diagnosis is suspected when there is a history of diarrhea after antibiotic use. Most cases involve the distal colon and flexible sigmoidoscopy usually detects the disease. In those cases with distal sparing a complete colonoscopy is required. Endoscopically, pseudomembranes appear as multiple raised, white/yellow adherent plaques. Diagnosis can also be confirmed by detection of C. difficile toxin in the stool. Most cases will resolve with metronidazole or oral vancomycin therapy. Intractable or fulminant disease may require hospitalization for supportive measures including blood transfusion according to the same principles for the management of ulcerative colitis, and even emergent colectomy if deterioration continues. The operation of choice in fulminant pseudomembranous colitis is a total abdominal colectomy with end-ileostomy; other operations such as loop ileostomy, segmental resection, or 'blowhole' stoma carry a significantly higher mortality in comparison to total colectomy with end-ileostomy [2-4].
